The main method of communication between the front and back ends is through various API endpoints set on various routers mounted at the backend. These routers include:
A router that handles database requests for invitation objects, which includes the GET /user-invitations endpoint for users to view the invitations they have received, the GET /sent-invitations endpoint is for organizers to see the invitations they have sent, and a patch endpoint for updating the status of an invitation (such as accepting or declining) these are mainly used by the RSVP system.
A router that handles database requests for event objects, which includes. Two POST endpoints: one for creating a new event, and another for uploading the event image. One PUT endpoint for processing invitations and updating event's participation field, a flexible GET for fetching all public events and fetching a specific event by ID. Two GET methods (/owned and /joined) for retrieving all events that the organizer organized and all events a user joined respectively. One GET for retrieving an event’s image by the image id. One PUT for updating the event’s details and process relevant tasks such as sending an immediate notification to joined users. One PUT for updating the event discussion description and finally a DELETE endpoint for deleting old images of an event in the database after updating the image of an event.
A router that handles logging in and out operations requested by the user. This includes two routes, each corresponding to the operation of either logging in or out.
A router that handles database requests for message objects that are displayed in the discussion board, which includes the GET, POST, PUT and DELETE routes each used to perform read, create, update and removal operations on the requests, respectively.
A router that handles database requests for notification objects sent to the users, which includes a GET method for retrieving the latest notifications of the user and is also called if there is any new scheduled notification received.  A POST method to create a new notification when an event organizer wants to inform participants, if the notification is scheduled, it is saved in the database to be sent later by the background worker who will trigger the PUT /process endpoint every nine seconds to send any unsent notifications whose scheduled time is reached. If it is immediate, the route directly updates the recipients’ notification lists and marks the notification as sent. There is also a DELETE method for deleting a specific notification in case the user removes a notification from the NavBar Bell.
A router that handles database requests for request objects created by the users, which includes the POST method for handling the situation when the user requests to join a public event. A flexible GET endpoint that can retrieve either the current user's request for a specific event or all requests sent to that event, and another GET /my-requests endpoint to get all of the requests the user has sent to various events. Additionally there is a GET /organizer-responses to get all of the requests from different users who wish to join this user public events. The router also provides a PATCH method for  updating a request if an owner accepts or rejects the request.

A router that handles database requests for the global settings of the application, exclusively used by users who have administrative privileges. These include the maximum number of events a user can create, as well as the maximum number of invitations for an event a host can send. This router includes a GET route to obtain the global settings and a PUT route to modify them.
A router that handles database requests for user objects, which includes two POST routes, four PUT routes, six GET routes and a DELETE route each used to perform create, modify, read and remove operations on the data of the user, respectively.
